
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="basic_principles">Basic principles</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
ScreenFactory is a software development tool that
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Unordered List Itemshould increase the efficiency of design, development and deployment of client applications</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> does not require deep technical knowledge of software development and as such it allows the developer to focus more on the business side of the problem domain</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> is specialized for creation of client side layer of information systems, that is applications that serve mainly for work with forms and structured data records</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> creates HTML5 SPAs (Single Page Applications)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> can be used for development of applications with responsive design and/or applications targeted for mobile borwsers; while this approach is possible, it often requires some extra work on stylesheets and page layout design.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
From the developer point of view
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> it contains visual editor for forms (<abbr title="What You See Is What You Get">WYSIWYG</abbr>)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> some behaviour is defined through expressions (similar to formulas in Microsoft Excel)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> some behaviour is defined through scripting in ActionLang, that is the same language used in other Solitea tools like Metasystem</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> is extensible through adding new visual components and new <abbr title="Application Programming Interface">API</abbr> for scripting</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Basic principles&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;basic_principles&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-1193&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="what_is_html5_javascript">What is HTML5 + javascript</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
HTML5 and javascript is modern software development approach for development of software client applications (usually web clients). In comparison to traditional web applications where the UI (user interface) was rendered on the server and each change of UI required loading of whole page again, HTML5 applications often use javascript to modify the page within the browser and without the need for reloading the page. This is especially true for SPA applications where the UI is usually not rendered on the server at all and where templating approach is usually used on the client side (that is in the user browser).
</p>

<p>
While HTML5 applications are not limited to web and there are many software applications that use combination of native client container rendering the HTML5 application, most of the use is still aimed for the web clients.
</p>

<p>
<abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> is the markup language that is describing the UI while javascript is the programming language which manipulates this <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> to put it to live. As javascript is not best suited to development of large applications, other languages are often used instead and later transpiled to javascript (ie. Typescript, Coffeescript).
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;What is HTML5 + javascript&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;what_is_html5_javascript&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1194-&quot;} -->