
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="seznam_standardnich_komponent">Seznam standardních komponent</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>

<h4 id="button">Button</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Clickable button with text specified in Caption property.
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="customhtml">CustomHtml</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Component with custom <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> entered in plain text. There can be used knockout binding to current data via data-bind attribute. You can also add &lt;script&gt; elements to this component, but think about using OnInit event instead of this. You can use paste command on the form to paste current HMTL in the clipboard as CustomHtml component, highly usable specially from Word or Excel.
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="datacolumn">DataColumn</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Definition of columns used in DataTable.
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="datatable">DataTable</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Simple <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> table with rows repeated for each row in input collection. Use Columns collection to specify vertical columns and drop components to each column.
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="datepicker">DatePicker</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Editor for entering date from calendar.
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="enumcombo">EnumCombo</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Combobox / dropdown for editing enum value.
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="enumradiogroup">EnumRadioGroup</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Radiobuttons editor of enum value.
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="errorpanel">ErrorPanel</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Panel displaying all validation errors on the form. Usable for showing validations hidden from user (collapsed areas, tabs, etc.).
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="form">Form</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Object representing form, i.e navigable part of your ui.
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="formplaceholder">FormPlaceholder</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Place for holding another forms, which are changed by navigation
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="groupbox">GroupBox</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Boxed group of another components with optional caption.
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="hyperlink">HyperLink</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Clickable text usable for navigation in the application or out of it.
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="checkbox">CheckBox</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Clickable box for editing bool attribute.
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="image">Image</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Component showing image from any url. Url can be static or bound from data.
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="label">Label</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Component displaying text for any purposes.
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="panel">Panel</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Basic layouting container allowing to stack components from left to right or from top to bottom and set their size properties.
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="referencecombo">ReferenceCombo</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Combobox/dropdown allowing user to pick object from list, which is provided from given Reference list provider. Value is written to reference attribute.
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="repeater">Repeater</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Container component repeating it&#039;s content for each item in bound collection.
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="textbox">TextBox</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Text editor for entering any string values. Can be used for numbers, strings, passwords and multiline strings.
</p>

</div>
