
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="faq">FAQ</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<strong>Q:How to print?</strong><br/>

A: There is no support for preparing prints on the client. Common way how to do it is to prepare the print on the server and then just display link to it on the client. In theory it is as well possible to just use the printing of html through css and media queries but that is not suitable for all scenarios and it may be quite time-consuming to create such css and adapt the page for both usages.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Q: Why doesn&#039;t my application communicate with the server?</strong><br/>

A: Check the browser developer console for errors and possibly check the network tab to see more details. If there is an error mentioning server not accepting requests from certain origin or from origin null, the problem is probably CORS. It is a protection built in modern browsers that do not allow requests for server in different domain unless server explicitly supports it.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Q: Is it possible to server the application over HTTPS?</strong><br/>

A: Yes and it is even a recommended approach. But if application access resources over both HTTP and HTTPS at the same time, some browsers may block it.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Q: How do I change a colour in component X?</strong><br/>

A: At the moment this documentation does not cover how to write <abbr title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</abbr> for our components. You may want to try to check existing <abbr title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</abbr> through the browser tools and that way find out how to tweak the <abbr title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</abbr> your way.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Q: Is it possible to debug the application step by step?</strong><br/>

A: We are trying to generate the javascript as readable as possible and that way to debug the javascript in the borwser. How to debug javascript in given browser should be part of its documentation. In case of Chrome you may use the extension for debugging knockout.js. But in general, because of the declarative principle of the binding, the application does not have simple and clear “beginning and the end”.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Q: How to colour a data row based on its state?</strong><br/>

A: Use <abbr title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</abbr> class property and set it to as many states as there are options. Bind the condition for each class to a computed property that compares the state of the row with the row of given state. After that, create appropriate css classes in some css resource you add to your project.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Q: How do I deploy the application to IIS with NTML security?</strong><br/>

A: Application is built as static html/javascript/css files and as such it may be deployed on any web server. NTML authentication happens on the server. For the client to have access to it it has to ask the server through some request (ideally in the same domain as the client). This request will be authenticated and the server may return some login information, user settings and whatever else makes sense in given scenario. Be mindful that Internet Explorer authenticates with NTLM only to Intranet zone or if the address does not contain any dots. Otherwise it may be necessary to add it to that zone manually.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Q: How to set the cache of files on the serer</strong><br/>

A: It is important to set the files caching right otherwise it may happen that the browser will not load the latest version if you update it. If you build the application in RELEASE mode, there is a filesToCache.txt file that lists all the files that may be cached indefinitely as they have unique string in their name that will change if the content changes. Files that are not on this list should not be cached at all. The filesToCache.txt file itself should not be deployed at all.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Q: How to set the user rights?</strong><br/>

A: ScreenFactory does not have a support for user rights in any way. You may set it up on the application level. After authentication you can ask the server for the roles of the user for example and based on that change the behaviour of the application. In either case, do not depend on these user rights too much, proper security check have to always be on the server. After all, the client application is only html and javascript and with a little knowledge it is possible to “hack” it in the browser through developer console.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Q: What is the relation between my data and JSON format?</strong><br/>

A: JSON is a format in which the data is usually sent between the server and the client and occasionally even stored on the client. There are methods on data elements how to create the JSON from its value as well as how to set its value from some JSON string.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Q: Where do I find component X?</strong><br/>

A: Some components are available internally and you find them in the toolbox. If they are not there, check the <a href="/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=en:sffw" class="wikilink2" title="en:sffw" rel="nofollow">sffw</a> project that has more than 50 more. If you don&#039;t find what are you looking for, you may contact ScreenFactory developers to either recommend some substitution, workaround or even get the new component created.
</p>

</div>
