
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="expressions">Expressions</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Expression is a way how to define some calculation. We use expressions in computed attributes, validators and actions. We define them in <a href="/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=en:actionlang" class="wikilink1" title="en:actionlang">ActionLang</a>.
</p>

<p>
Expressions contain arithmetics for NULL values. ActionLang is type-based, incompatible types have to be explicitly converted (by functions like <em>ToString</em>, <em>ToBool</em> etc.). Editor for expressions and actions has autocomplete (it may be explicitly called with <em>CTRL+space</em>), so it is relativelly easy to find out which objects are available in current context.
</p>

<p>
For simplicity, we don&#039;t use exceptions or error codes. All operations have defined result under all circumstances and in cases where some function cannot return standard result (ie. division by zero), they demand fallback value as a parameter.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Expressions&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;expressions&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-794&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="literals">Literals</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> string – can be entered enclosed in double quotes; if you want to actually have a quote inside the literal, you can use backslash to escape - <em>\“</em>. For this reason, you have to escape the backslash itself as well <em>\\</em>. You may escape other characters too, like <em>\t</em> but be mindful that the result is going to be generated to javascript where such characters may break the resulting script. This is true especially for \n and \r.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> integer - number optionally preceded with minus (ie. 5, -5)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> decimal - number optionally including dot and exponent (ie. 3, 3.5, 1.0e10d)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1 node"><div class="li"> date, datetime</div>
<ul>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> if it is needed to enter the constant in the code, enter it in format <em>&#039;DyyyyMMdd&#039;</em> and <em>&#039;DyyyyMMdd HHmmss&#039;</em></div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> boolean - constants <em>true</em> and <em>false</em></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> null - in ActionLang, even null needs to have type. To test if something is null, you can use methods like <em>HasValue</em> or <em>IsEmpty</em>. To create null literal in the code, you can use methods starting with <em>Default</em> for each type.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
ActionLang supports operator priority and changing this priority with parenthesis. Comments may be written between <em>/*</em> a <em>*</em>/ or be started with <em>//</em> (these later ones are automatically ended by the end of the line).
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Literals&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;literals&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;795-2054&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="relational_operators_in">Relational operators = &lt;&gt; &lt; &gt; &gt;= &lt;= in</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Operations are comparing values. For null values we are trying to keep the rule that whenever some operation involves null value, result is going to be null as well. The exception is null=null returns true and null&lt;&gt;null returns false.
</p>

<p>
Because this “ANSI” approach to null values can make the comparison clumsy and hard to read, we have functions available that improves this a bit - <em>isTrue</em>, <em>isFalse</em>, <em>isTrueOrDefault</em> and <em>isFalseOrDefault</em>. These never return true, always it is either true or false.
</p>

<p>
Operator <strong>in</strong> tests whether value is contained in a set, ie. <em>value in [“1”,”2“]</em>. If value is null and there is null value in the set as well, it returns true, otherwise false.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Relational operators = &lt;&gt; &lt; &gt; &gt;= &lt;= in&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;relational_operators_in&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;2055-2806&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="ternary_operator">Ternary operator</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Ternary operator has syntax
</p>
<pre class="code">condition ? expressionIfConditionIsTrue : expressionIfConditionIsFalseOrNull</pre>

<p>
It tests whether condition is true and if so, the result is the first part after the questionmark otherwise it is the second part (the one after colon).
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Ternary operator&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;ternary_operator&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:4,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;2807-3112&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="logical_operators_or_and_and_not">Logical operators or, and and not</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
These operators can be used only for bool expressions.
</p>
<div class="table sectionedit6"><table class="inline">
	<thead>
	<tr class="row0">
		<th class="col0">X and Y</th><th class="col1">Returns null, if X or Y is null. Otherwise it returns false, if X or Y is false</th>
	</tr>
	</thead>
	<tr class="row1">
		<td class="col0">X or Y </td><td class="col1 leftalign">Returns null, if X or Y is null. Otherwise it returns true, if X or Y is true  </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row2">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">not X  </td><td class="col1 leftalign">Returns null, if X is null; true if X is false or false if X is true           </td>
	</tr>
</table></div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;table&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;table&quot;,&quot;secid&quot;:6,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;3216-3485&quot;} -->
</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Logical operators or, and and not&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;logical_operators_or_and_and_not&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:1,&quot;secid&quot;:5,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;3113-3486&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit7" id="arithmetic_operators">Arithmetic operators + - *</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
These are traditional operators for numbers (integer or decimal). They provide sum, difference and multiplication of two operands. If any operand is null, result is null. Division is done through functions <em>divide</em>, <em>divInt</em>, <em>mod</em>. There is no clear agreement on the result of integer division for negative numbers, so in such case, fallback is returned instead.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Arithmetic operators + - *&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;arithmetic_operators&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:1,&quot;secid&quot;:7,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;3487-3897&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit8" id="access_to_data">Access to data</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Data are available in certain contexts. They are access by their names and potentially names of parent structures. These parts are separated by dot. Examples are <em>name</em>, <em>this.name</em>, <em>subject.address.street</em>. Current context name may be omitted while other contexts are available through their names, ie. <em>form</em>, <em>globals</em>, <em>packages</em>.
</p>

<p>
To keep generated code as close as designed application, some keywords that would class with used technologies are forbidden. For most artefacts that have Name property, if you would enter such keyword, IDE will automatically change it by adding underscore at the beginning. Other than that, the keywords of javascript are forbidden in naming things (see http://mathiasbynens.be/notes/reserved-keywords), keywords of actionLang (var, and, or, not, in, true, false) and context names (<em>attr</em>, <em>collection</em>, <em>enums</em>, <em>functions</em>, <em>globals</em>, <em>metadata</em>, <em>this</em>, <em>packages</em>).
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Access to data&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;access_to_data&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:1,&quot;secid&quot;:8,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;3898-4867&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit9" id="methods">Methods</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
It is possible to call synchronous methods (sometimes called as well functions) in expressions. If they are global, you call them directly by name (ie. <em>length(s)</em>) and pass parameters in parentheses. Parentheses are mandatory even if there is no parameter (in such case they are empty). If you are calling method on an object, you start with the name of that object instance, ie. <em>addresses.count()</em>.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Methods&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;methods&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:1,&quot;secid&quot;:9,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;4868-5295&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit10" id="custom_functions">Custom functions</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
It is possible to define custom functions for the project. Function is defined in javascript and it declarase types and names of its parameters and result type. To use such function later in actionLang, you can find it on context <em>functions</em>, ie. <em>functions.myFn(73)</em> or <em>myPackage.functions.myFn(73)</em> if it is in different pacakge.
</p>

<p>
Such function should be <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pure_function" class="urlextern" title="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pure_function" rel="nofollow">pure function</a>, it should be <strong>static</strong>, <strong>deterministic</strong> and it should not have side effect.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Custom functions&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;custom_functions&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:1,&quot;secid&quot;:10,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;5296-5830&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit11" id="data_contexts">Data contexts</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Data are available in various contexts, and their availability is based on where is the expression used. Expressions in data validator will have different context than expression that is written on the right side of assignment in action. Following table gives you general overview of these contexts and their purpose.
</p>
<div class="table sectionedit12"><table class="inline">
	<thead>
	<tr class="row0">
		<th class="col0 leftalign">name                                                          </th><th class="col1 leftalign">type              </th><th class="col2 leftalign">description                                                                                                                 </th>
	</tr>
	</thead>
	<tr class="row1">
		<td class="col0 leftalign"><strong>this</strong>                                                       </td><td class="col1 leftalign">                 </td><td class="col2">Reference to current context, it varies based on the type of expression. Context methods can be called as <em>this.&lt;methodName&gt;()</em></td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row2">
		<td class="col0 leftalign"><strong>attr</strong>                                                       </td><td class="col1 leftalign">attribute type   </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Link to current attribute. Available only in data validators.                                                           </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row3">
		<td class="col0 leftalign"><strong>packages</strong>.&lt;packageName&gt;                                         </td><td class="col1 leftalign">                 </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Access to package metadata                                                                                              </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row4">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&gt; .<strong>functions</strong>.&lt;functionName&gt;                                      </td><td class="col1 leftalign">based on function       </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Custom function call                                                                               </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row5">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&gt; .<strong>metadata</strong>.&lt;entityName&gt;                                       </td><td class="col1 leftalign">                 </td><td class="col2 leftalign">                                                                                                                      </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row6">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&gt; .&lt;name&gt;                                                     </td><td class="col1 leftalign">childStructure     </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Through dot notation it is possible to access metadata of given data element                               </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row7">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&gt; .caption()                                                   </td><td class="col1 leftalign">string           </td><td class="col2 leftalign"><em>Caption</em> of given data element (metadata value)                                                                      </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row8">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&gt; .isRequired()                                                </td><td class="col1 leftalign">bool             </td><td class="col2 leftalign"><em>IsRequired</em> of given data element (metadata value)                                                                                   </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row9">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&gt; .<strong>enums</strong>.&lt;name&gt;                                           </td><td class="col1 leftalign">                 </td><td class="col2 leftalign">                                                                                                                      </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row10">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&gt; .&lt;value name&gt;                                             </td><td class="col1 leftalign">                 </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Metadata of enum value                                                                                                </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row11">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&gt; .enumCaption()                                               </td><td class="col1 leftalign">string           </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Caption                                                                                                               </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row12">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&gt; .enumValue()                                                 </td><td class="col1 leftalign">string           </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Enum value that is stored in data attribute                                                                                  </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row13">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&gt; .<strong>globals</strong>.&lt;jméno&gt;                                         </td><td class="col1 leftalign">As a structure   </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Global attribute                                                                                         </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row14">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&lt;name&gt;                                                        </td><td class="col1 leftalign">                 </td><td class="col2 leftalign">                                                                                                                      </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row15">
		<td class="col0">Following properties and methods may vary based on current structure</td><td class="col1 leftalign">                 </td><td class="col2 leftalign">                                                                                                                      </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row16">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&gt; .&lt;name&gt;                                                     </td><td class="col1 leftalign">                 </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Dot notation allows you to get to the content of the structure; for data attribute it will return its value                         </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row17">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&gt; .owner()                                                     </td><td class="col1 leftalign">                 </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Parent structure                                                                                                   </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row18">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&gt; .hasValue()                                                  </td><td class="col1 leftalign">bool             </td><td class="col2 leftalign">True if attribute is not null or for if any inner attribute is not null                                       </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row19">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&gt; .isValid()                                                   </td><td class="col1 leftalign">bool             </td><td class="col2 leftalign">True, if all potential inner attributes are valid and all validators are valid.                                     </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row20">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&gt; .validationErrorsCount()                                     </td><td class="col1 leftalign">integer          </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Number of validation errors on the conteiner and inner data elements                                                 </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row21">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&gt; .enumCaption()                                               </td><td class="col1 leftalign">string           </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Caption of current enum value (available only for attributes of enum type)                                                   </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row22">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&gt; .enumValue()                                                 </td><td class="col1 leftalign">string           </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Value of current enum attribute (available only for those)                                                             </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row23">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&gt; .count()                                                     </td><td class="col1 leftalign">integer          </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Number of items in the collection                                                                                               </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row24">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">&gt; .collection()                                                </td><td class="col1 leftalign">kolekce          </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Parent collection for given data element                                                                                       </td>
	</tr>
</table></div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;table&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;table1&quot;,&quot;secid&quot;:12,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;6177-11305&quot;} -->
</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Data contexts&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;data_contexts&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:1,&quot;secid&quot;:11,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;5831-11305&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit13" id="lambda_methods">Lambda methods</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Special type of methods can be called on collections or collection-like results. These methods are using parameter called lambda expression and are using <em>current</em>. This parameter will have the type of the item of given collection. It can be as well be renamed if you use syntax
</p>
<pre class="code">var x =&gt; expression</pre>

<p>
These methods do not change the collection in any way, always returning new collection-like object (sometimes we refer them as enumerables). These methods can be used in binding.
</p>
<div class="table sectionedit14"><table class="inline">
	<thead>
	<tr class="row0">
		<th class="col0 leftalign">.count()                                                                              </th><th class="col1 leftalign">integer                                 </th><th class="col2 leftalign">Returns number of items                                                                                                      </th>
	</tr>
	</thead>
	<tr class="row1">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">.count(lambdaCondition)                                                                </td><td class="col1 leftalign">integer                                 </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Returns number of items for which the condition is true                                                                             </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row2">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">.any()                                                                                </td><td class="col1 leftalign">bool                                    </td><td class="col2 leftalign">True, if there is at least one item                                                   </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row3">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">.exists(lambdaCondition)                                                               </td><td class="col1 leftalign">bool                                    </td><td class="col2 leftalign">True, if there is at least one item for which the condition is true                                                      </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row4">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">.selectFirst()                                                                        </td><td class="col1 leftalign">item                                 </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Returns first item; you should not call this unless you are sure there is at least one such item.                                            </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row5">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">.selectFirst(lambdaCondition)                                                          </td><td class="col1 leftalign">item                                 </td><td class="col2">Returns first item that fits the condition. You should only call this if you are sure there is such item, otherwise you should test it first with exists</td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row6">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">.where(lambdaCondition)                                                                </td><td class="col1 leftalign">enumerable                            </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Returns subset of items that fits the condition.                                                    </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row7">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">.orderBy(lambdaSelector, asc)                                                         </td><td class="col1 leftalign">enumerable                            </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Returns the items ordered by given criteria either ascending or descending                              </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row8">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">.clear(lambdaCondition)                                                                </td><td class="col1 leftalign">integer                                 </td><td class="col2">This can be called only from actions. It removes items that fit the criteria and returns their count.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row9">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">.max(lambdaSelector)                                                                  </td><td class="col1">decimal, integer, string, date, dateTime</td><td class="col2 leftalign">Maximum                                                                                                                </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row10">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">.min(lambdaSelector)                                                                  </td><td class="col1">decimal, integer, string, date, dateTime</td><td class="col2 leftalign">Minimum                                                                                                                </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row11">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">.sum(lambdaSelector)                                                                  </td><td class="col1 leftalign">decimal, integer                        </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Sum                                                                                                                 </td>
	</tr>
</table></div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;table&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;table2&quot;,&quot;secid&quot;:14,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;11832-14814&quot;} -->
<p>
Lambda conditions have to return boolean. Lambda selectors return some value.
</p>

<p>
Methods that return enumerable can be chained, ie.
</p>
<pre class="code">form.collection
  .where(current.index() &gt; 2)
  .where(current.Mass &gt; 1000)
  .sum(var x =&gt; x.Netto)</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Lambda methods&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;lambda_methods&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:1,&quot;secid&quot;:13,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;11306-15063&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit15" id="standard_methods">Standard methods</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Lets mention few standard methods that are worth noticing. For complete list check list of standard methods.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> hasValue/isEmpty – check whether some data element is null or not</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> isTrue, isFalse, isTrueOrDefault, isFalseOrDefault – test value for true, false, true or null, false or null etc. They always return true or false, never null (unlike comparison operators).</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> toString – converts value to string</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> toDate, toDateTime, toBoolean, toDecimal, toInt, … – convert value to given type; second parameter is fallback value if the conversion cannot be done</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> getDate, getDateTime – return current date or datetime</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> defaultBool, defaultInt, … defaultFromValue – return null value of given type</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> stopDebugger – generate instruction for browser console to stop debugging at given point</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Standard methods&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;standard_methods&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:3,&quot;secid&quot;:15,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;15064-15914&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit16" id="action_methods">Action methods</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Following methods are only available in actions, not in expressions.
</p>
<div class="table sectionedit17"><table class="inline">
	<thead>
	<tr class="row0">
		<th class="col0 leftalign">.clear()                   </th><th class="col1 leftalign">-     </th><th class="col2 leftalign">Sets attribute or inner attributes to null. For collection it removes all items instead.                                                                                                                        </th>
	</tr>
	</thead>
	<tr class="row1">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">.isTouched()               </td><td class="col1 leftalign">bool  </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Checks whether the data element was changed by user since form start (or since it was reseted by setTouched method)                                                                                  </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row2">
		<td class="col0">.setTouched(isTouched:bool)</td><td class="col1 leftalign">-     </td><td class="col2">Marks attribute as changed by user (see isTouched). Works recursivelly.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row3">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">Collections and structures only        </td><td class="col1 leftalign">      </td><td class="col2 leftalign">                                                                                                                                                             </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row4">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">.fromJson(json:string)     </td><td class="col1 leftalign">bool  </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Fills the structure or collection from JSON string. Returns false if the parameter did not contain valid json.                                                               </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row5">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">.toJson()                  </td><td class="col1">string</td><td class="col2 leftalign">Converts the content to JSON string.                                                                                                                                                             </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row6">
		<td class="col0">.toJson(ignoreUnderscored) </td><td class="col1">string</td><td class="col2 leftalign">Converts the content to JSON string, optionally ignoring attributes which names start with underscore.                                                       </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row7">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">Collections only                    </td><td class="col1 leftalign">      </td><td class="col2 leftalign">                                                                                                                                                             </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row8">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">.addItem()                 </td><td class="col1">Item </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Adds empty item to collection and returns it.                                                                                                                           </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row9">
		<td class="col0">.removeItem(index:integer) </td><td class="col1 leftalign">      </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Removes item from the collection on given index.                                                                                                                               </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row10">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">Collection item only              </td><td class="col1 leftalign">      </td><td class="col2 leftalign">                                                                                                                                                             </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row11">
		<td class="col0 leftalign">.removeMe()                </td><td class="col1 leftalign">      </td><td class="col2 leftalign">Removes item from collection.                                                                                                                                     </td>
	</tr>
</table></div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;table&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;table3&quot;,&quot;secid&quot;:17,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;16013-18470&quot;} -->
</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Action methods&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;action_methods&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:3,&quot;secid&quot;:16,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;15915-&quot;} -->