
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="application_model">Application model</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Building application in ScreenFactory is based on design pattern <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model–view–viewmodel" class="urlextern" title="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model–view–viewmodel" rel="nofollow">MVVM</a> (Model - View - ViewModel). Model is the business model, sometimes called domain model as well. View is the UI the user sees and interacts with. ViewModel is an adapter between the model and the View. Important part of the pattern is Binding that connects ViewModel and View. Binding is a mechanism that is synchronizing these two parts and that is propagating any changes in one of them to the other. Any change in ViewModel (data) is that way immediatelly reflected in UI and any change in UI (typically by user interaction) is propagated back to ViewModel. Some components may not propagate the changes immediately (ie. TextBox binding is not by default changing the attribute with every keystroke but instead sends the change when user focus leaves the component or hits ENTER).
</p>

<p>
While not part of the pattern name, the controller is still present as in similar patterns and it is responsible for directing the program flow, ie. switch current view, load and save data etc.
</p>

<p>
This pattern is implemented in ScreenFactory in following way:
</p>

<p>
<strong>ViewModel:</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <em>DataEntity</em> – mechanism for reusing data structure definition</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <em>DataCollection</em> – data type holding multiple records of the same structure; it is similar to arrays or lists in other languages but it allows to dynamically add and remove its items</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <em>DataAttribute</em> – holder of data value</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <em>ComplexAttribute</em> – data type able to hold inside multiple DataAttributes</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <em>ComputedAttribute</em> – atribute that is not holding a value but instead it has an expression that is dynamically computed (and recomputed) based on its inputs</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <em>MetaTyp</em> – mechanism for reusing data atribute definition and defining enum type attributes</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> These data elements are implemented in runtime with help of knockout.js library and its observables</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> On the form the ViewModel is represented as “Form variables” or in similar manner as “Global variables”</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> ViewModel is often composed partially by include of entity (possibly imported from MTS) that is same or similar to part of the model and enriched by attributes that control the view state, ie. IsSelected, IsAddressVisible, IsInSpecialGroup.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>View:</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <em>Form</em> – main part of UI; either whole “web page” or at least main part of it in case master page is used as well. Master page itself is a form as well. Form is composed of components which properties may be tied to view model through binding or set to static value</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <em>Panel</em> – main layouting component; while invisible by itself it is able to position its content in similar way as <abbr title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</abbr> flex or WPF Stack</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Editors and other components - displaying and editing data</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> In runtime the View is represented by <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> page, <abbr title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</abbr> and javascript code</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>Model:</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> It is not represented in ScreenFactory in any way. The data structure of the model may be defined or imported as <em>DataEntity</em> and included in ViewModel (most common use).</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>Controller:</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <em>Action and handler</em> – scripts that are run in response to events on the form and its components</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <em><abbr title="Application Programming Interface">API</abbr> object</em> – invisible component that may be placed on the form or globally in application. Its main purpose is to enrich scripts in the actions with new functionality.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> In runtime the controller is represented by javascript functions and referenced scripts</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
